[MUSIC PLAYING]
In astrology, we
focus on the movement
of the sun and the moon and
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus,
Neptune, and Pluto,
all from Earth's point of view.
And we map these points
against the horizon of Earth.
However, if only the
universe was as simple
as a mapping a handful
of points on a chart,
this would be a much
different world than it is.
The fact of the
matter is the universe
is filled with mystery.
And we even have that
symbol, that metaphor,
represented
astrologically by the fact
that once one delves
into astrology
and begins to learn the
meanings of the various planets
in the various signs, one
is confronted with the fact
that there are other
objects up there.
These other objects
also go around the sun,
just like the planets.
In fact, when the
first of these objects
was discovered in the
19th century, Ceres,
it was assumed to be a new
planet that was discovered.
And this was big
news in the day,
the discovery of a new planet.
But then another new
planet was discovered
and then another new
planet was discovered.
And then we had several
of these planets
that couldn't really be
planets because there
were too many of them.
And so they were
given a new name
and they were called asteroids.
And the asteroid belt
exists in an orbit
around the sun between
the orbit of Mars
and the orbit of Jupiter.
This is a huge,
vast reach of space.
I mean, Mars takes less
than a couple of years
to go around the sun
and Jupiter takes
12 years to go around the sun.
And in between Mars and Jupiter
are thousands and thousands
and thousands of
objects, some of them
large enough to trick us into
thinking that they are planets
and others small
enough to just be
little rocks, little pebbles,
pieces of space gravel.
The weird thing is that these
asteroids, when analyzed
by their names and their
orbits and their positions,
carry just as much
weight as the planets.
And this is one of
the mysterious things
about astrology and about the
universe in which we live.
I guess that if one believes
that as above, so below,
one can't make arbitrary
distinctions between how far
above and how far
below or how big
something needs to be
to have impact on us.
Interestingly enough,
when we map these points,
we can develop new nuances
to people's personalities
and the rhythms of our lives.
Then, in 1977, Chiron
was discovered.
And at first, it was
thought to be a new planet
and then thought, nope,
maybe it's an asteroid.
And then it was
realized that it was
not within the asteroid belt.
It couldn't be an asteroid.
And it was then
discovered that there
were many other planetoids,
not asteroids, not comets.
What are they?
Let's create a new class of
objects going around the sun,
said NASA.
And these are
called the centaurs,
and Chiron is simply the
largest of the centaurs.
And again, by looking at the
imagery and the mythology
of Chiron, we get to
understand better the nature
of our own individual lives.
However, we don't
even have to stop
with these objects going around
the sun at this proximity.
There are objects being
discovered now that are
out past the orbit of Pluto.
And in fact, as we go further
and further out into space,
we find that there are places
in the universe out there
that are black holes and radio
sources and x-ray sources.
And there are clusters of
galaxies and there are galaxies
and there are all--
phasers and pulsars.
And there are all kinds
of things out there.
And there's an entire
branch of astrology
that only could come into
being in the latter part
of the 20th century called
deep space astrology.
So whether we're looking at the
planets that the ancients could
see, and that would be
Mercury, Venus, Mars,
Jupiter and Saturn, or the
modern planets that include
Uranus, Neptune, and
Pluto or the asteroids,
whether they're the four largest
ones or 10,000 more named ones,
or the centaurs or all these
other things out there,
we begin to see that even
with the use of astrology,
that life cannot be
reduced to just a simple
map where we know everything.
[MUSIC PLAYING]